
''' Roman numerals are represented by seven different symbols: I, V, X, L, C, D and M.

Symbol       Value
I             1
V             5
X             10
L             50
C             100
D             500
M             1000
For example, 2 is written as II in Roman numeral, just two ones added together. 12 is written as XII, which is simply X + II. The number 27 is written as XXVII, which is XX + V + II.

Roman numerals are usually written largest to smallest from left to right. However, the numeral for four is not IIII. Instead, the number four is written as IV. Because the one is before the five we subtract it making four. The same principle applies to the number nine, which is written as IX. There are six instances where subtraction is used:

I can be placed before V (5) and X (10) to make 4 and 9. 
X can be placed before L (50) and C (100) to make 40 and 90. 
C can be placed before D (500) and M (1000) to make 400 and 900.
Given a roman numeral, convert it to an integer.'''

# solution: 
class Solution(object): 
  def romanToInt(self, s):
        roman = {'I':1, 'V':5, 'X':10, 'L':50,
                 'C':100, 'D':500, 'M':1000} '''dictionary to store the roman numeral and their values.'''
        total = 0 '''variable to store the total value.'''

        for i in range(len(s) - 1): '''this loop to iterate through the string, except the last character.'''
            if roman[s[i]] < roman[s[i + 1]]: """this condition to check if the current numeral is less than the next numeral. if true, then we need to subtract the current numeral from the total."""
                total -= roman[s[i]]
            else:
                total += roman[s[i]]

        total += roman[s[-1]]
        return total

 # here is what i learn to solve this case: 
 # inform what are the roman numeral and the value of each numeral.
 # create dictionary to store the roman, numeral and their values.
    # iterate through the string, except the last character.
    # check if the current numeral is less than the next numeral. if true, then we need to subtract the current numeral from the total.
    # otherwise, we need to add the current numeral to the total.
   # finally, we need to add the last numeral to the total and return the total value
"""in general, to solve this case, the technical we need to understand is how to use dictionalry, interate through string and condition check."""
-------------------------------------------------
LONGEST COMMON PREFIX

Write a function to find the longest common prefix string amongst an array of strings.

If there is no common prefix, return an empty string "".

 

Example 1:

Input: strs = ["flower","flow","flight"]
Output: "fl"
Example 2:

Input: strs = ["dog","racecar","car"]
Output: ""
Explanation: There is no common prefix among the input strings.
class Solution(object):
    def longestCommonPrefix(self, strs):
        """Function that takes a list of strings as input and finds the longest common prefix."""
        if not strs:
            # check if the input list is empty
            return ""
        
        # assume the first string is the common prefix
        prefix = strs[0]
        
        # iterate through the rest of the strings
        for s in strs[1:]:
            while s[:len(prefix)] != prefix and prefix:
                # shorten the prefix by one character
                prefix = prefix[:-1]
                
        return prefix
        while s[:len(prefix)] != prefix and prefix:
            # shorten the prefix by one character
            prefix = prefix[:-1]
            
        return prefix

# after this case ,to solve this problem, we need to know about creating functions, loops, and string slicing in Python.
'''this case is asked for an understanding basic of string manipulation and iteration in Python. it is  a common problem we could have in real life scenarios where we need to find commonalities in data sets.'''